---
layout: page
title: Interactive R programming practice
permalink: /assignments/r/hw02
nav_order: 3
parent: R Assignments
grand_parent: Assignments
---

## The  `swirl`  tutorial **Due Friday, Jul 10th at 12pm PST**{: .label .label-red }

The quickest way of learning to program is by doing. Moving from tutorial, lessons, and reading material to actual projects is when you will experience the most growth in your computational skills. This exercise is a middle ground of sorts that will walk you through coding skills to build your experience while giving detailed explanations about the concepts.

The `swirl` library of R interactively teaches the fundamentals of `R` at the pace of the student, you! Once installed, `swirl` is an easy-to-use and persistent system to learn, practice, and re-learn the fundamentals of `R`.

1. Install `swirl`

    ```r
    install.packages("swirl")
    ```

2. Load `swirl`

    ```r
    library(swirl)
    ```

3. Start `swirl`

    ```r
    swirl()
    ```

4. Use `swirl` to learn!!!

When given the choice, choose `1: R Programming: The basics of programming in R`. There will be a delay while the tutorial is downloaded.

At the next prompt choose `1: R Programming`.

Keep a markdown (or RMarkdown) notebook to record what you learn. You will be asked to turn in your documentation as proof of completion for this assignment. Alternatively, if you learn better by writing rather than typing notes, you can write your notes and submit a photo.

**Attempt to complete** the following 9 tutorials within this course. Remember to TAKE A BREAK if you start to feel fuzzy-headed. This is a lot to take in.

> When swirl asks you “Would you like to receive credit for completing this course on Coursera.org?” you can answer “no”

1. Basic Building Blocks
2. Workspace and Files
3. Sequences of Numbers
4. Vectors
5. Missing Values
6. Subsetting Vectors
7. Matrices and Data Frames
8. Logic (On this one you can stop after you get to the 52% completion point; see note below)
9.  (You can skip 9-11 for now)
10. (You can skip 9-11 for now)
11. (You can skip 9-11 for now)
12. Looking at Data

Note: for tutorial 8, where you can stop at the half-way point, when you are ready to stop, then at an R command prompt(>) type:

```{r}
delete_progress("YOURNAME")
main()
```

Where you replace `YOURNAME` with whatever name you gave swirl when you started

**Attempt to complete** the swirl() tutorials 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 (to 52%), and 12.

## Bonus content

Yay, you completed the basic R programming section of `swirl`. But what's next?

If this learning method works for you, try some of the other course available through the `swirl` library at:

[Swirl courses](https://swirlstats.com/scn/title.html)

Select an interesting course and use the following command:

install_course("NameOfCourseHere")

For an alternative to the basics, try using the "DataTrail" series of swirl courses.
