---
layout: page
title: Reflective essay
permalink: /assignments/hw01
nav_order: 2
parent: Assignments
---

# Reflection on bridging human thought to machine execution **Due Wednesday, May 20th at 12pm PST**{: .label .label-red }

In your own words, write a 700-1000 word reflection on our first discussion. Namely, how does a human idea become an executable operation on your computer.

For example, you could trace the path:

1. Human intention
2. Algorithm development
3. Written code
    1. compiler/interpreter
    2. assembly translation
    3. binary translation
    4. operating system control
    5. process execution across CPUs

{: .warning}
> However! Your goal in this assignment is not to regurgitate lecture materials nor restate definitions, but to explain the entire process and the connections. **Please be creative, be poetic, be wrong!** You are not going to be graded on accuracy but on your attempted understanding of the material.


{: .note-title}
> For example, your essay could begin like:
>
> Finally, I was able to run the script. "What time is it? 2 AM!" I belligerently mumble to no one in particular as I sat alone in an empty office late at night. There is so much left to do, but for the moment, the program was running and there was nothing for me to do but sleep. As I stood, severing my connection with the device for the first time in what felt like hours, I noticed the faint hum of my computer's fan growing louder. Something must be happening within the machine that I could no longer see, but I had set in motion. As I close the door behind myself to, finally, sleep, my computer was breaking from its idle trance. No longer idle, but actively executing instructions controlled by operating system's allocations of system resources needed. The first domino fell to begin the internal processes that allowed my thoughts and intentions to translate into electrical signals across the CPU of the device.

